 <h1>Coupled thermo-mechanical numerical model to minimize risk in large-format additive manufacturing of thermoplastic composite designs</h1>
 
The collapse of deposited thermoplastic composite material under self-weight presents a risk in large-format extrusion-based additive manufacturing. Two critical processing parameters, extrusion temperature and deposition rate, govern whether a deposited layer is stable and bonds properly with the previously deposited layer. Currently, the critical parameters are determined via a trial-and-error approach. This research work uses a simplified physics-based numerical simulation to determine a suitable combination of the parameters that will avoid the collapse of the deposited layer under self-weight. The suitability of the processing parameters is determined based on the maximum plastic viscous strains computed using a sequentially coupled thermo-mechanical numerical model. This computational tool can efficiently check if a combination of temperature and extrusion rate causes layer collapse due to self-weight, and hence minimize the manufacturing risk of large-format 3D-printed parts.

The description of the method can be found in the following journal paper. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40964-022-00349-9

Cite as: Bhandari, S., Lopez-Anido, R.A. Coupled thermo-mechanical numerical model to minimize risk in large-format additive manufacturing of thermoplastic composite designs. Prog Addit Manuf (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/s40964-022-00349-9
